README.md, before:

<img src="./screenshot/color-rg.png">

# What is color-rg?
color-rg is a search and refactoring tool based on ripgrep.

I'm a big fan of color-moccur.el, this extension's name is a tribute to color-moccur.el!

## Installation
Clone or download this repository (path of the folder is the `<path-to-color-rg>` used below).

In your `~/.emacs`, add the following two lines:
```Elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "<path-to-color-rg>") ; add color-rg to your load-path
(require 'color-rg)
```

If you use Mac, you also need to install [exec-path-from-shell](https://github.com/purcell/exec-path-from-shell)

## Usage
Bind your favorite key to functions:

| Function                                | Description                                                              |
| :--------                               | :----                                                                    |
| color-rg-search-input                   | Search user's input with current directory                               |
| color-rg-search-symbol                  | Search current symbol with current directory                             |
| color-rg-search-project                 | Search user's input in project                                           |
| color-rg-search-project-rails           | Search user's input in rails project                                     |
| color-rg-search-symbol-with-type        | Search current symbol with current directory and special file extensions |
| color-rg-search-project-with-type       | Search user's input in project and special file extensions               |
| color-rg-search-project-rails-with-type | Search user's input in rails project and special file extensions         |

### Keymap for view mode

| Key        | Description                                                            |
| :--------: | :----                                                                  |
| C-a        | Jump to first editable position of current line                        |
| Tab        | Jump to next match keyword                                             |
| Back Tab   | Jump to previous match keyword                                         |
| j          | Jump to next match keyword                                             |
| k          | Jump to previous match keyword                                         |
| h          | Jump to next match file                                                |
| l          | Jump to previous match file                                            |
| RET        | Open file relative to match line                                       |
| Ctrl + m   | Open file relative to match line                                       |
| r          | Replace all matches                                                    |
| f          | Filter results match regexp                                            |
| F          | Filter results not match regexp                                        |
| x          | Filter results match file extension                                    |
| X          | Filter results not match file extension                                |
| u          | Don't filter file extension                                            |
| D          | Delete current line from results                                       |
| i          | Toggle to include or exclude the ignore files                          |
| t          | Re-search pattern as literal                                           |
| c          | Toggle to smart case or case sensitive                                 |
| s          | Re-search with new keyword and default argument                        |
| d          | Re-search with new directory                                           |
| z          | Re-search with new files                                               |
| Z          | Rerun last search but prompt for new files which will NOT be searched. |
| C          | Rerun rg with customized arguments.                                    |
| e          | Enable edit mode                                                       |
| q          | Quit                                                                   |

### Keymap for edit mode

| Key        | Description                                     |
| :--------: | :----                                           |
| C-a        | Jump to first editable position of current line |
| C-c C-j    | Jump to next match keyword                      |
| C-c C-k    | Jump to previous match keyword                  |
| C-c C-h    | Jump to next match file                         |
| C-c C-l    | Jump to previous match file                     |
| C-c C-RET  | Open file relative to match line                |
| C-c C-v    | Disable edit mode                               |
| C-c C-d    | Delete current line                             |
| C-c C-D    | Delete all lines                                |
| C-c C-r    | Recover current line                            |
| C-c C-R    | Recover buffer content                          |
| C-c C-q    | Quit                                            |
| C-c C-c    | Apply changed line to files                     |

### Work with isearch
Add this into your emacs config file:
```
(define-key isearch-mode-map (kbd "M-s M-s") 'isearch-toggle-color-rg)
```
When using `isearch-forward', type "M-s M-s" to search current isearch string with color-rg.

### Research with new files
```color-rg-rerun-change-files``` can limit search files with
GLOB. This function used rg arguments '--type', '--add-type'.

Default search files is "everything" which means use rg without '--type' argument.

If search files is "all", search rg like "rg --type all".

Other complete candidates are mostly read from "rg --type-list"
command, which is predefined in rg.

Of course you can specified your onw GLOB, just insert them as you
like. For example, if you input a GLOB like "*mypersonalglob*", which
match none of the candidates, then, color-rg will call shell command
like ```"rg --add-type 'custom:*mypersonalglob*' --type custom ..."```.

### Contributors

Thanks all [contributors](https://github.com/manateelazycat/color-rg/graphs/contributors) help this project.

Below is list of outstanding contributors:

[Xie Peng](https://github.com/pengpengxp) - Main contributor, wrote many patches to improve regexp/literal search.

Commit message:

README :art: add customized search readme

README.md, after:

<img src="./screenshot/color-rg.png">

# What is color-rg?
color-rg is a search and refactoring tool based on ripgrep.

I'm a big fan of color-moccur.el, this extension's name is a tribute to color-moccur.el!

## Installation
Clone or download this repository (path of the folder is the `<path-to-color-rg>` used below).

In your `~/.emacs`, add the following two lines:
```Elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "<path-to-color-rg>") ; add color-rg to your load-path
(require 'color-rg)
```

If you use Mac, you also need to install [exec-path-from-shell](https://github.com/purcell/exec-path-from-shell)

## Usage
Bind your favorite key to functions:

| Function                                | Description                                                              |
| :--------                               | :----                                                                    |
| color-rg-search-input                   | Search user's input with current directory                               |
| color-rg-search-symbol                  | Search current symbol with current directory                             |
| color-rg-search-project                 | Search user's input in project                                           |
| color-rg-search-project-rails           | Search user's input in rails project                                     |
| color-rg-search-symbol-with-type        | Search current symbol with current directory and special file extensions |
| color-rg-search-project-with-type       | Search user's input in project and special file extensions               |
| color-rg-search-project-rails-with-type | Search user's input in rails project and special file extensions         |

### Keymap for view mode

| Key        | Description                                                            |
| :--------: | :----                                                                  |
| C-a        | Jump to first editable position of current line                        |
| Tab        | Jump to next match keyword                                             |
| Back Tab   | Jump to previous match keyword                                         |
| j          | Jump to next match keyword                                             |
| k          | Jump to previous match keyword                                         |
| h          | Jump to next match file                                                |
| l          | Jump to previous match file                                            |
| RET        | Open file relative to match line                                       |
| Ctrl + m   | Open file relative to match line                                       |
| r          | Replace all matches                                                    |
| f          | Filter results match regexp                                            |
| F          | Filter results not match regexp                                        |
| x          | Filter results match file extension                                    |
| X          | Filter results not match file extension                                |
| u          | Don't filter file extension                                            |
| D          | Delete current line from results                                       |
| i          | Toggle to include or exclude the ignore files                          |
| t          | Re-search pattern as literal                                           |
| c          | Toggle to smart case or case sensitive                                 |
| s          | Re-search with new keyword and default argument                        |
| d          | Re-search with new directory                                           |
| z          | Re-search with new files                                               |
| Z          | Rerun last search but prompt for new files which will NOT be searched. |
| C          | Rerun rg with customized arguments.                                    |
| e          | Enable edit mode                                                       |
| q          | Quit                                                                   |

### Keymap for edit mode

| Key        | Description                                     |
| :--------: | :----                                           |
| C-a        | Jump to first editable position of current line |
| C-c C-j    | Jump to next match keyword                      |
| C-c C-k    | Jump to previous match keyword                  |
| C-c C-h    | Jump to next match file                         |
| C-c C-l    | Jump to previous match file                     |
| C-c C-RET  | Open file relative to match line                |
| C-c C-v    | Disable edit mode                               |
| C-c C-d    | Delete current line                             |
| C-c C-D    | Delete all lines                                |
| C-c C-r    | Recover current line                            |
| C-c C-R    | Recover buffer content                          |
| C-c C-q    | Quit                                            |
| C-c C-c    | Apply changed line to files                     |

### Work with isearch
Add this into your emacs config file:
```
(define-key isearch-mode-map (kbd "M-s M-s") 'isearch-toggle-color-rg)
```
When using `isearch-forward', type "M-s M-s" to search current isearch string with color-rg.

### Research with new files
`color-rg-rerun-change-files` can limit search files with
GLOB. This function used rg arguments '--type', '--add-type'.

Default search files is "everything" which means use rg without '--type' argument.

If search files is "all", search rg like "rg --type all".

Other complete candidates are mostly read from "rg --type-list"
command, which is predefined in rg.

Of course you can specify your own GLOB, just insert them as you
like. For example, if you input a GLOB like `*mypersonalglob*`, which
match none of the candidates, then, color-rg will call shell command
like:
```
"rg --add-type 'custom:*mypersonalglob*' --type custom ..."
```

### Research with customized arguments
If none of the preset meet your requirements,
`color-rg-customized-search` can release the full power of `rg`.

When `color-rg-customized-search` is called,
the full command of rg will show up, and you can add any argument to rg as in shell.

you must escape special characters when using `color-rg-customized-search`,
for example:

```
rg --type-add custom\:\*.el
# or
rg --type-add 'custom:*.el'
# or
rg --type-add "custom:*.el"
```


### Contributors

Thanks all [contributors](https://github.com/manateelazycat/color-rg/graphs/contributors) help this project.

Below is list of outstanding contributors:

[Xie Peng](https://github.com/pengpengxp) - Main contributor, wrote many patches to improve regexp/literal search.
